Updated open source analytics (#10698)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/blog/best-open-source-analytics-tools.mdx

![posthog screenshot](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/posthog_6_867dc8bbc9.png)

![posthog screenshot](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/posthog_7_43bb254514.png)

</ImageSlider>

#### What is PostHog?

- **Created:** 2020
- **License:** MIT
- **GitHub Stars:** 24.2k

[PostHog](https://posthog.com/) is an all-in-one platform that combines product analytics with several other developer-focused tools, such as web analytics, session replay, feature flags, experiments, error tracking, and surveys.

Beyond the core [product analytics features](/product-analytics), it also supports creating [custom insights using SQL](/docs/product-analytics/sql), and offers a [built-in data warehouse](/docs/data-warehouse) so you can import data from external sources like Stripe, Hubspot, and Zendesk.

#### Who should use PostHog?

Developers and startups who need an in-depth understanding of what users are doing in their app, or want to track the complete journey from their marketing website through to their app. There's a [generous free tier](/pricing), which means ~90% of users use PostHog for free.

> #### Pros and cons

Author: yeah, I tried a bunch of different ways like this, but found the table with the header above just felt neater. the padding between sections without the heading felt a bit crowded.

|-------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------|
| Advanced product analytics features                         | Self-hosting not recommended above 300k events per month       |
| Easy-to-use web analytics dashboard                         | Steeper learning curve compared to lightweight analytics tools |
| Session replay for web and mobile apps                      |                                                                |
| Replaces multiple tools                                     |                                                                |
| Generous free tier on cloud                                 |                                                                |

#### FAQ

<details>
    <summary>What closed-source tools can it replace?</summary>

Several. The built-in product analytics is an [alternative to Mixpanel](/blog/best-mixpanel-alternatives) and [Amplitude](/blog/best-amplitude-alternatives), and it can replace Google Analytics for website and marketing analytics. 

> PostHog also offers session replay for both web and mobile apps, so it can replace the likes of [Hotjar](/blog/best-hotjar-alternatives) and [FullStory](/blog/best-fullstory-alternatives), and feature flag and experiment features like those found in [LaunchDarkly](/blog/best-launchdarkly-alternatives).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With heat maps plus session replay for both web and mobile apps, PostHog can replace the likes of [Hotjar](/blog/best-hotjar-alternatives) and [FullStory](/blog/best-fullstory-alternatives). It even includes feature flag and experiment features like those found in [LaunchDarkly](/blog/best-launchdarkly-alternatives).
```

Hotjar == heat maps for a lot of folks so take or leave this suggestion to call that out explicitly.

</details>

<details>
    <summary>What are the hosting requirements?</summary>

The minimum requirements are a Hetzner VM (or equivalent) with 4 vCPU, 16GB RAM, and more than 30GB storage. Note that PostHog only recommends the [self-hosted release](/docs/self-host) for deployments up to ~300k events per month. Above this, it recommends switching to PostHog Cloud due to the complexity of scaling to higher event volumes.

</details>

<details>
    <summary>Is there a hosted option?</summary>

Yes. PostHog offers a managed cloud option with a [generous free tier](/pricing) of 1 million events, 5,000 recordings, and 1 million flag API requests every month, and the option of US or EU-based hosting.

</details>

<br/>

### 2. Matomo

![Matomo - open source analytics tools](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/v1710055416/posthog.com/contents/images/blog/open-source-analytics-tools/matomo-screenshot.png)

#### What is Matomo?

- **Created:** 2007
- **License:** AGPLv3
- **GitHub Stars:** 20.2k

> [Matomo](https://github.com/matomo-org/matomo) is an open-source platform for website analytics. The user experience is closely modelled on the previous version of Google Analytics, known as Universal Analytics, which many people prefer to Google's current offering.

Author: MURICA

| Google Analytics data import                                | Session-based analytics less appropriate for app analytics                    |
| Easy installation for Wordpress and popular CMS             | Dated user interface                                                          |
| Used by many large orgs (United Nations & EU)               | More complex to selfhost than lightweight analytics tools                    |
| Strong web and marketing analytics features                 |                                                                               |
| Built-in tag manager                                        |                                                                               |

#### FAQ

<details>
    <summary>What closed-source tools can it replace?</summary>

It's mainly pitched as an [alternative to Google Analytics 4](/blog/ga4-alternatives), especially for those looking for ironclad GDPR compliance. Matomo even offers a data import tool for Google Analytics, so you can bring your data with you.

</details>

<details>

>     <summary>hat's included in open source?</summary>

Reviewer: or 'hats included', you tell me

</details>

<details>
    <summary>What are the hosting requirements?</summary>

OpenPanel doesn't provide minimum requirements, but recommends hosting using Hetzner, and notes it'll work on any server where you have pre-installed Docker, Docker Compose, Node and pnpm.

</details>

<details>
    <summary> Is there a hosted option?</summary>

Yes. There is no free tier, but 100k events a month cost just $20, and 1 million events are $90 per month.

</details>

<br/>

### 6. Umami

![umami analytics](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/umami_1_eb1b7297da.png)

#### What is Umami?

- **Founded:** 2020
- **License:** MIT
- **GitHub Stars:** 23k

[Umami](https://umami.is/) is another popular privacy-first website analytics tool. Like Plausible, it tracks basic website analytics, doesn't collect any personal information, and is extremely fast. Similar to OpenPanel, it's added some product analytics features, such as user journeys, retention, and funnels, though it only supports very basic analysis.

#### Who should use Umami?

> Similar to Plausible, Umami is ideal for Anyone who wants easy-to-use website analytics that respects privacy. The two products are very similar, so which you choose will depend on personal preferences.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similar to Plausible, Umami is ideal for anyone who wants easy-to-use website analytics that respects privacy. The two products are very similar, so which you choose will depend on personal preferences.
```

#### FAQ

<details>
    <summary>What closed-source tools can it replace?</summary>

OpenReplay is an alternative to LogRocket and other similar dev-focused session replay tools, like PostHog. It can also replace the likes of Hotjar, and includes a co-browsing feature that's similar to Hotjar's.

</details>

<details>
    <summary>What's included in open source?</summary>

The free community edition includes all OpenReplay's core features for session replay, app monitoring, and analytics with no limits on users or projects. Paying customers gain a handful of advanced features, such as support for data export, extra security features, and dedicated support.

</details>

<details>
    <summary>What are the hosting requirements?</summary>

OpenReplay [typically recommends](https://docs.openreplay.com/en/deployment/) a minimum of 2 vCPUs, 8 GB of RAM, 50 GB of storage, though this varies depending on the hosting provider.

</details>

<details>
    <summary> Is there a hosted option?</summary>

Yes. There's a free tier that's limited to 1,000 session per month, or you can pay-as-you-go for $5.95 per 1,000 sessions each month.

> </details>

Author: honestly, any time I've looked into this in the past, people don't click on the CTA. if they're interested, they'll find their way to where they need to go.
